.TH mangen 4 "" "ALICE Reference Manual"
.ad b
.SH NAME
mangen - generate manual entries for library
.SH SYNOPSIS
mangen [-d] [-n] [-l] chapter file

.SH DESCRIPTION
generates:    <name>.<chapter#>  (manual entry for module)
and if "-l":  <name>.<chapter#+1> (manual entries for each routine)

where <name> is the "root" of the "tail" of the specified file
(i.e. if file="/usr/dave/gronk.c", then name="gronk");
and <chapter#> is the single digit chapter number
(i.e. just the specified chapter number if one was given,
or the number from the table below if a chapter name was given).

<chapter> can be any digit or any of the following chapter abbreviations:

 #  abbr   name        what
 =  ====   =========== ====================================
 0  con*  
    over*  conventions - conventions and overview material
 1  lib*   libraries   - subroutine library summaries
 2         routines    - individual library routines
 3  task*
    tsk*
    dr*    drivers     - tasks and drivers
 4  tool*  tools       - Unix development/maintenence tools

.SH NOTE
Specifying the chapter as "lib" automatically selects the -l option.

"-l" flag causes a special library module style manual entry to be created.
The manual entry for a library has a specially constructed synopsis section
that contains the titles and calling sequence of each routine in the library.
Also a seperate manual entry is generated for each of the routines in the
library.  These routine manual entries will be put in a file named libxxx.2.

"-d" flag causes the intermediate nroff source files to NOT be deleted.
These are called "mg.out" and "mgr.out" for the module manual entry
and individual routine entries (only if -l option specified), respectively.
This option is useful for debugging manual entries that don't look the
way you expected.

"-n" flag causes nroff sources not to be deleted, and not to be nroffed
either.  In this case, "mg.out" (and "mgr.out") will be the ONLY output
from mangen.

.SH EXAMPLE
      % mangen lib /usr/vw/lib/lstlib.c
will create "lstlib.1" and "liblst.2" in the current directory.
